clearText traffic info added (#2037)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x04f-Testing-Network-Communication.md

### Static Analysis

> Since Android 9 (API level 28), cleartext HTTP traffic is blocked by default. However, there are multiple ways in which an application can still send cleartext HTTP traffic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you should identify all network requests in the source code and ensure that no plain HTTP URLs are used. Make sure that sensitive information is sent over secure channels by using [`HttpsURLConnection`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/HttpsURLConnection.html "HttpsURLConnection") or [`SSLSocket`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/SSLSocket.html "SSLSocket") (for socket-level communication using TLS).

Next, you should ensure that the app is not allowing cleartext HTTP traffic. Since Android 9 (API level 28) cleartext HTTP traffic is blocked by default but there are multiple ways in which an application can still send it:
```

Next, you should ensure that the app is not allowing cleartext HTTP traffic. Since Android 9 (API level 28) cleartext HTTP traffic is blocked by default but there are multiple ways in which an application can still send it:

- Setting the [`android:usesCleartextTraffic`](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element#usesCleartextTraffic "Android documentation - usesCleartextTraffic flag") attribute of the `<application>` tag in the AndroidManifest.xml file. Note that this flag is ignored in case the [Network Security Configuration](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-config.html) is configured.

> - Configuring the network security config to enable cleartext traffic by setting the `cleartextTrafficPermitted` attribute to true on `<domain-config>` elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configuring the Network Security Configuration to enable cleartext traffic by setting the `cleartextTrafficPermitted` attribute to true on `<domain-config>` elements.
```

All of the above cases must be carefully analyzed as a whole. For example, even if the app does not permit cleartext traffic in its Android Manifest or Network Security Configuration, it might actually still be sending HTTP traffic. That could be the case if it's using a low-level API (for which Network Security Configuration is ignored) or a badly configured cross-platform framework.

> First, you should identify all network requests in the source code and ensure that no plain HTTP URLs are used. Make sure that sensitive information is sent over secure channels by using [`HttpsURLConnection`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/HttpsURLConnection.html "HttpsURLConnection") or [`SSLSocket`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/SSLSocket.html "SSLSocket") (for socket-level communication using TLS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Next, even when using a low-level API which is supposed to make secure connections (such as `SSLSocket`), be aware that it has to be securely implemented. For instance, `SSLSocket` **doesn't** verify the hostname. Use `getDefaultHostnameVerifier` to verify the hostname. The Android developer documentation includes a [code example](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-ssl.html#WarningsSslSocket "Warnings About Using SSLSocket Directly").

> Finally, Verify that the server or termination proxy at which the HTTPS connection terminates is configured according to best practices. See also the [OWASP Transport Layer Protection cheat sheet](https://github.com/OWASP/CheatSheetSeries/blob/master/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.md "Transport Layer Protection Cheat Sheet") and the [Qualys SSL/TLS Deployment Best Practices](https://dev.ssllabs.com/projects/best-practices/ "Qualys SSL/TLS Deployment Best Practices").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, verify that the server or termination proxy at which the HTTPS connection terminates is configured according to best practices. See also the [OWASP Transport Layer Protection cheat sheet](https://github.com/OWASP/CheatSheetSeries/blob/master/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.md "Transport Layer Protection Cheat Sheet") and the [Qualys SSL/TLS Deployment Best Practices](https://dev.ssllabs.com/projects/best-practices/ "Qualys SSL/TLS Deployment Best Practices").
```

### Static Analysis

Since Android 9 (API level 28), cleartext HTTP traffic is blocked by default. However, there are multiple ways in which an application can still send cleartext HTTP traffic:

- Setting the [`android:usesCleartextTraffic`](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element#usesCleartextTraffic "Android documentation - usesCleartextTraffic flag") attribute of the `<application>` tag in the AndroidManifest.xml file. Note that this flag is ignored in case a network security config is configured.
- Configuring the network security config to enable cleartext traffic by setting the cleartextTrafficPermitted attribute to true on `<domain-config>` elements.
- Using low level libraries (e.g. [`Socket`](https://developer.android.com/reference/java/net/Socket "Socket class") to set up a custom HTTP connection.
- Using an cross-platform framework, as these typically have their own implementations for HTTP libraries.

> Even if one of the above cases is true, it doesn't mean that the application actually sends HTTP traffic. It's possible that an exception is configured, but only HTTPS traffic is used in practice.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this line could be a bit confusing. You say this because e.g. only HTTPS URLs can be found in the code (?). But there could be multiple cases where something wrong can happen, e.g. what if the app loads code dynamically and that code contains HTTP URLs?

I think the points in the list make clear that you must not have those flags enabled. But we should still warn that even if they are not enables things can still go wrong. Suggestion here (I'm assuming that the current next line 411 would be moved to be the first line of the current section, so this links to line 413):

```suggestion
All of the above cases must be carefully analyzed as a whole. For example, even if the app does not permit cleartext traffic in its Android Manifest or Network Security Configuration, it might actually still be sending HTTP traffic. That could be the case if it's using a low-level API (for which Network Security Configuration is ignored) or a badly configured cross-platform framework.
```

> Identify all API/web service requests in the source code and ensure that no plain HTTP URLs are used. Make sure that sensitive information is sent over secure channels by using [`HttpsURLConnection`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/HttpsURLConnection.html "HttpsURLConnection") or [`SSLSocket`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/SSLSocket.html "SSLSocket") (for socket-level communication using TLS).

Reviewer: Here or in the one of the points above we should highlight that **high-level APIs should be preferred** (HttpsURLConnection over SSLSocket) since there's less the devs can do wrong. This is also recommended by [Apple](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/preventing_insecure_network_connections).

> Prefer High-Level Frameworks in Your App
>
>The system enforces ATS when you use the standard URL Loading System. Instances of URLSession automatically negotiate the most secure connection available from the server. 

We must have this recommendation for both platforms in the same test case.

```suggestion
First, you should identify all network requests in the source code and ensure that no plain HTTP URLs are used. Make sure that sensitive information is sent over secure channels by using [`HttpsURLConnection`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/HttpsURLConnection.html "HttpsURLConnection") or [`SSLSocket`](https://developer.android.com/reference/javax/net/ssl/SSLSocket.html "SSLSocket") (for socket-level communication using TLS).
```

Reviewer: I put "First, " because I think this might be better the first paragraph. A low hanging fruit that can be tested quickly and it's trivial to automate and report.

> Be aware that `SSLSocket` **doesn't** verify the hostname. Use `getDefaultHostnameVerifier` to verify the hostname. The Android developer documentation includes a [code example](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-ssl.html#WarningsSslSocket "Warnings About Using SSLSocket Directly").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, even when using a low-level API which is supposed to make secure connections (such as `SSLSocket`), be aware that it has to be securely implemented. For instance, `SSLSocket` **doesn't** verify the hostname. Use `getDefaultHostnameVerifier` to verify the hostname. The Android developer documentation includes a [code example](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/security-ssl.html#WarningsSslSocket "Warnings About Using SSLSocket Directly").
```

Reviewer: I'd also change the next line to be "Finally, verify that the server ..." (I'm not able to suggest changes there).
